How to set up deep dive acquisition dashboards (#1885)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/tutorials/taxonomy-acquisition.md

---

> title: Set up Deep Dive Acquisition Dashboards

Reviewer: Does this adhere to the "Use sentence case for titles" style guide rule? https://posthog.com/handbook/company/communication#writing-style

```suggestion
title: Set up deep dive acquisition dashboards
```

Reviewer: Although the writing style guide could be a little clearer and be explicit about both page titles and page headings.

sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

This tutorial will help you:

1. send the _right_ events into PostHog, and:

> 1. set up dasbhoards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. set up dashboards
```

so your product and growth teams can answer the most important questions about user acquisition.

# Pre-Requisites

To follow this tutorial along, you need to:

1. Have [deployed PostHog](/docs/deployment).

> 1. Have started receiving events via our [snippet](/docs/integrate/client/js), one of our [integrations](/docs/integrate/overview), via pushing from a data warehouse, or our [API](/docs/api/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Have started receiving events via our [snippet](/docs/integrate/client/js), one of our [integrations](/docs/integrate), via pushing from a data warehouse, or our [API](/docs/api).
```

# Dashboard setup

This tutorial recommends three levels of dashboard:

- Acquisition (amongst other key metrics - Activation, Retention, Revenue and Referral)

>   - Deep dive: acquisition. This details Where acqusition is coming from (ie a change to conversion/traffic/untracked conversions)

Reviewer: Capilatised Where?
```suggestion
  - Deep dive: acquisition. This details Where acquisition is coming from (i.e. a change to conversion/traffic/untracked conversions)
```

    - Deep dive: traffic. This details where traffic is coming from.

Note - we only break down traffic further, we don't do the same for conversion or untracked conversions.

# Event taxonomy required

> Now you've a sense of how to breakdown acquisition, it's time to figure out which dashboard _items_ (ie the range of graphs that appear within a dashboard) should look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have a sense of how to breakdown acquisition, it's time to figure out which dashboard _items_ (i.e. the range of graphs that appear within a dashboard) should look.
```

!> All of the following should be plotted as a time series. That means you can understand which metric moved, causing another metric to move.

> You need to define these events within your product, and to push them to PostHog. For example, "traffic" may mean people visiting your website, visiting an individual landing page and so on. Or show both if either could be relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to define these events within your product, and push them to PostHog. For example, "traffic" may mean people visiting your website, visiting an individual landing page, and so on. Or show both if either could be relevant.
```

You also have the option of considering traffic _only_ on the top part of your funnel, _or_ traffic to your overall website.

If you take an overall traffic approach, which we'd recommend (especially if you do lots of top of funnel awareness-building content), you should consider that your funnel's top step needs to include _every_ page you count here, _and_ it's then worth also including a dashboard item to show traffic to specific pages on which people can sign up. You could even include a funnel showing your conversion from _any_ landing page without a signup action to pages _with_ a signup action.

### Users - traffic - by utm_source

Same as [Users - traffic](#users--traffic), but broken down by utm_source.

> If users land on your website with [utm parameters](https://blog.hootsuite.com/how-to-use-utm-parameters/) passed to the url (ie example.com/?utm_source=google), PostHog will automatically capture their values (if you're using our javascript snippet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users land on your website with [utm parameters](https://blog.hootsuite.com/how-to-use-utm-parameters/) passed to the URL (e.g. example.com/?utm_source=google), PostHog will automatically capture their values (if you're using our JavaScript snippet).
```

> utm_source is typically used to track the traffic source - ie Bing/Google/Facebook/Instagram.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`utm_source` is typically used to track the traffic source - e.g. Bing/Google/Facebook/Instagram.
```

### Users - traffic - by initial referring domain

You won't always have utm parameters for inbound traffic, for example - imagine a blogger had organically dropped a link to your website from theirs, or if you get traffic from search engines.

Seeing traffic by initial referring domain helps you understand how these link sources that you don't control are performing.

### Users - signups - non-funnel

You may be signing up users outside of your funnel. Typical examples of when this happens:

* Your own team creates these manually. This happens with many companies who don't have a self serve signup process.

> * For B2B, the second, third, fourth, etc users added into an existing team may come through the rest of their team using your platform already. We'll write future tutorials about how to track referrals like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For B2B, the second, third, fourth, etc. users added into an existing team may come through the rest of their team using your platform already. We'll write future tutorials about how to track referrals like this.
```
